# (2.1) Analyzing a Cyber Attack

<u>Types of Malware:</u>
- **Malware** (Malicious Software) = any code that can be used to steal data, bypass access controls, or cause harm to or compromise a system.
- Types of Malware:
	- **Spyware** = track and spy on you → monitors online activity and captures your personal data/information.
	- **Adware** = automatically deliver constant pop-up advertisements on your screen (often in web browser).
	- **Backdoor** = gain unauthorized access by bypassing normal authentication processes to access a system → difficult to detect b/c in background
	- **Ransomware** = holding computer system captive/hostage until a specific payment is made by owner(s) → encrypts your data so you cannot access.
	- **Scareware** = "scare" tactics to trick you into taking specific action → warning pop-up to click a specific program (secretly malware)
	- **Rootkit** = modifying operating system to create a backdoor, then attackers take advantage of this → gain access to resources that normally shouldn't be accessible (privilege escalation)
	- **Virus** = replicates and attaches itself to other executable files → can mutate (to avoid detection, and spread via drives/disks/emails) and destructive.
	- **Trojan Horse** = masking true intents, may appear legit but it is actually very dangerous → exploit privileges as well.
	- **Worms** = replicates itself to spread from one computer to another and can run by itself (unlike viruses) → can spread quickly and drastically.

<u>Symptoms of Malware:</u>
- Common *symptoms* to look out for:
	- increase in Central Processing Unit (CPU) usage, slowing down device
	- computer freezing or crashing
	- decrease in web browsing speed
	- unexplainable network connection problems
	- modified or deleted files
	- having unknown files/desktop icons
	- unknown processes running
	- programs turning off themselves
	- emails being sent without consent

---

<u>Malware Matching:</u>

1) *Malware designed to track your online activity and capture your data*

- ANSWER: **Spyware**

> "Spy" = track activity, capturing data → basically spying on you!

2) *Software that automatically delivers advertisements*

- ANSWER: **Adware** 

> "Ad" = ads → advertisements!

3) *Malware that holds a computer system captive until a payment is made to the attacker*

- ANSWER: **Ransomware**

> "ransom" = demanding money to release stolen resource

4) *Malicious code that attaches to legitimate programs and usually spreads by USB drives, optical media, network shares or email*

- ANSWER: **Virus**

> Viruses usually spread by drives, emails, and disks, ec.

5) *Malicious code that replicates itself independently by exploiting vulnerabilities in networks*

- ANSWER: **Worm**

> Worms typically replicate itself independently unlike worms! 

