# (1.3) What Was Taken?

# Scenario 1

According to our sources, a well known hotel chain that operates across the world has reported a massive data breach, with the personal information of over three million guests exposed to hackers.

The hotel discovered that hackers gained access to its customer database by using the login details of one of its employees.

At this point, the hotel doesn’t believe that the hackers were able to access any account passwords or financial information. Recent guests are encouraged to check the hotel chain’s web portal to see if they have been impacted by this breach.

Q: In this example, what did the hackers take?

❌ The username and password of all of the hotel’s employees

❌ The hotel chain’s reputation

✅ The names, email address and phone # of over three million hotel guests!

❌ The card payment information of over three million guests

> This is because "The hotel discovered that hackers gained access to its *customer database* by using the login details of one of its *employees.*" 

---
# Scenario 2

A popular online training platform admitted leaving the personal data of millions of its students (many of them minors) exposed on a publicly accessible cloud database.

Hackers were able to directly access students’ full names, email addresses, phone numbers, and school enrollment details from the Internet!

While it’s unclear what the hackers have done with this acquired information, it’s safe to say that they have everything they need to carry out widespread phishing or malware attacks.

Q: What exploits did the hackers use in this case to gain access to valuable personal information?

❌ Extracting information when the volume of student data exceeds the storage capacity of the platform’s memory buffer

 ❌ Taking advantage of student information not being correctly validated on the platform

❌ Bypassing the platform’s access control methods

✅ Weaknesses in the platform’s security practices

> This is because, in this scenario, hackers were able to take advantage of an organization’s *poor security practices*. Unsecured cloud databases left exposed on the Internet present a huge vulnerability and one that attackers will seek to exploit to gain easy access to valuable organizational data. → "admitted *leaving the personal data of millions* of its students (many of them minors) *exposed on a publicly accessible cloud database*."

