# (1.4) Cyber Attackers

<u>Types of Attackers:</u>
- **Amateurs** = *"script kiddies"* or inexperienced hackers who use existing tools to launch attacks. 
- **Hackers**
	- *White Hat Attackers* = break into networks/systems to identify weaknesses so that security can be improved → done w/ permission and results are reported back to the owner.
	- *Gray Hat Attackers* = find vulnerabilities in system but only report their findings to owners if doing so coincides with their agenda. They also might publish details about the vulnerability on the internet so that other attackers can exploit it.
	- *Black Hat Attackers* = take advantage of vulnerability for illegal personal, financial or political gains (bad guys).
- **Organized Hackers** = organizations of cybercriminals, hacktivists, terrorists, and state-sponsored hackers → highly sophisticated and organized, and can provide services to other criminals.
	- *Hacktivists* = make political statements to create awareness about issues that are important to them.
	- *State-sponsored attackers* = gather intelligence or commit sabotage on behalf of their government → highly trained and well-funded.

---
# Matching Hats

1) *After hacking into ATM systems remotely using a laptop, this attacker worked with the ATM manufacturers to resolve the identified security vulnerabilities.*

- ANSWER: **Gray Hat**

> The attacker hacked into an ATM remotely (maliciously), but worked with ATM manufacturers to fix the vulnerability. Thus, finding vulnerabilities in system but only report their findings to owners if doing so coincides with their agenda.

2) *This attacker transferred $10 million into their bank account using customer account and PIN credentials gathered from recordings.*

- ANSWER: **Black Hat**

> The attacker took advantage of a vulnerability for ILLEGAL personal/financial gain in this situation, where they stole $10 million from stealing customer acc. and PIN creds.

3) *This attacker’s job is to identify weaknesses in a company’s computer system.*

- ANSWER: **White Hat**

> The attacker has a "job" which is to identify vulnerabilities in a company's system, meaning that he was hired by the company to attack it. Thus, this is done w/ permission and results are reported back to the owner.

4) *This attacker used malware to compromise a company’s system and steal credit card information that was then sold to the highest bidder.*

- ANSWER: **Black Hat**

> The attacker hacked the company's system in order to steal credit card information for personal/financial gain in this situation where the personal data stolen is sold off for financial gain.

5) *While carrying out some research, this attacker stumbled across a security vulnerability on an organization's network that they are authorized to access.*

- ANSWER: **White Hat**

> The attacker had "authorized access", meaning that they attacked the network w/ permission from the organization. 

---

<u>Internal and External Threats:</u>
- **Internal** = employees, contract staff or trusted partners can accidentally or intentionally:
	- mishandle confidential data
	- facilitate outside attacks by connecting infected USB media into the organization's computer system
	- invite malware onto the organization's network by clicking on malicious emails or websites
	- threaten the operations of internal servers or network infra devices. 
- **External** = amateurs or skilled attackers outside of the organization can:
	- exploit vulnerabilities in the network
	- gain unauthorized access to computing devices
	- use social engineering to gain unauthorized access to organizational data

---

Remember that phishing email you received earlier from one of your customers?

An investigation into this email revealed that the user accounts and access privileges of a former employee were not fully removed from the IT systems on leaving the company. In fact, this former employee, who now works for a competitor, logged into @Apollo’s customer database only three days ago.

Has an internal or external security threat occurred here?

✅ Internal

❌ External

> The ex-employee was able to launch an attack based on insider knowledge of the organization's network (internal threats can cause more damage than external).



